.\" Manpage for passgen.
.\" Contact yarkov_aleksei@mail.ru to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "26 Jan 2017" "1.0.0" "passgen man page"
.SH NAME
    passgen \- Console password generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
    passgen [-h|--help]
    passgen [-v|--version]
    passgen [-l|--length] [-c|--count] [-P|--pattern] [-e|--enable-space]
    passgen [-l|--length] [-c|--count] [-u|--letter-up] [-d|--letter-down] [-n|--number] [-s|--symbol] [-e|--enable-space]
.SH DESCRIPTION
    passgen \- Console password generator. Depending on the parameters program returns one or more strings of random characters.
.SH OPTIONS
    -h, --help                       Help information
    -v, --version                    Package version
    -l, --length                     Password length. If not specified,
                                     it will be set to 25. If set to 0,
                                     the program will ask for input from the keyboard.
    -c, --count                      The amount for one time passwords.
                                     It is useful when you need to create
                                     a file with a unique string.
    -P, --pattern                    A string containing the possible
                                     characters in the password.
                                     If the key is specified, the keys
                                     -u, -d, -n, -s will be ignored.
    -u, --letter-up                  Use uppercase letters in the password
    -d, --letter-down                Use lowercase letters in the password
    -n, --number                     Use the numbers in the password
    -s, --symbol                     Use punctuation to the password
    -e, --enable-space               Add space to the password pattern
.SH EXAMPLE
    $ passgen -l0                    # Input length from the keyboard
    $ passgen -l25 -d                # Use the lowercase letters only
    $ passgen -l25 -s                # Use punctuation marks only
    $ passgen -l25 -dn               # Use lowercase letters and numbers only
    $ passgen -l25 -du               # Use lowercase and uppercase letters only
    $ passgen -l25 -P123abc          # Use symbols '123abc' only
    $ passgen -l25 -P123abc -e       # Use symbols '123abc' with space
    $ passgen -l25 -c5               # List of the 5 passwords, one per line
.SH BUGS
    On any errors report to the address <yarkov_aleksei@mail.ru>
.SH AUTHOR
    Yarkov Aleksey (yarkov_aleksei@mail.ru)
.SH SEE ALSO
    Get more information on project page:

    https://github.com/yarkovaleksei/passgen
