.\" Manpage for passgen.
.\" Contact yarkov_aleksei@mail.ru to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "27 Jan 2017" "1.0.0" "passgen man page"
.SH NAME
.B passgen \- Console password generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B passgen
[
.B \-h
]
[
.B \-v
]
[
.B \-l
.I LENGTH
]
[
.B \-c
.I COUNT
]
.br
        [
.B \-P
.I PATTERN
]
[
.B \-u
]
[
.B \-n
]
[
.B \-n
]
[
.B \-s
]
[
.B \-e
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B passgen
\- Console password generator
.PP
Depending on the parameters program returns one or more strings of random characters.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Help information
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Package version
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-length=LENGTH
Password length. If not specified,
it will be set to 25. If set to 0,
the program will ask for input from the keyboard.
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-count=COUNT
The amount for one time passwords.
It is useful when you need to create
a file with a unique string.
.TP
.B \-P, \-\-pattern=PATTERN
A string containing the possible
characters in the password.
If the key is specified, the keys
.B \-u, \-d, \-n, \-s
will be ignored.
.TP
.B \-u, \-\-letter-up
Use uppercase letters in the password
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-letter-down
Use lowercase letters in the password
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-number
Use the numbers in the password
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-symbol
Use punctuation to the password
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-enable-space
Add space to the password pattern
.SH EXAMPLE
.TP
.B passgen \-l0
Input length from the keyboard
.TP
.B passgen \-l25 \-d
Use the lowercase letters only
.TP
.B passgen \-l25 \-s
Use punctuation marks only
.TP
.B passgen \-l25 \-dn
Use lowercase letters and numbers only
.TP
.B passgen \-l25 \-du
Use lowercase and uppercase letters only
.TP
.B passgen \-l25 \-P123abc
Use symbols '123abc' only
.TP
.B passgen \-l25 \-P123abc \-e
Use symbols '123abc' with space
.TP
.B passgen \-l25 \-c5
List of the 5 passwords, one per line
.SH BUGS
On any errors report to the address <yarkov_aleksei@mail.ru>
.SH AUTHOR
Yarkov Aleksey (yarkov_aleksei@mail.ru)
.SH SEE ALSO
Get more information on project page:

https://github.com/yarkovaleksei/passgen
